Chinese New Year is a Chinese festival that celebrates the beginning of a new year on the traditional Chinese calendar.
Chinese New Year; is; a Chinese festival; ;
that(a Chinese festival); celebrates; the beginning of a new year on the traditional Chinese calendar; ;
Chinese New Year; celebrates; the beginning of a new year on the traditional Chinese calendar; ;

The festival is usually referred to as the Spring Festival in modern China, and is one of several Lunar New Years in Asia.
The festival; is referred; ; ; as the Spring Festival || in modern China
The festival; is; one of several Lunar New Years in Asia; ;

Observances traditionally take place from the evening preceding the first day of the year to the Lantern Festival, held on the 15th day of the year.
Observances; take place; ; ; from the evening || to the Lantern Festival
the evening; precede; the first day of the year; ;
the Lantern Festival; be held; ; ; on the 15th day of the year

The first day of Chinese New Year begins on the new moon that appears between January 21 and February 20.
The first day of Chinese New Year; begins; ; ; on the new moon
that(the new moon); appears; ; ; between January 21 and February 20

In 2018, the first day of the Lunar New Year was on Friday, 16 February, initiating the year of the Dog.
the first day of the Lunar New Year; was on; Friday; ; In 2018
the first day of the Lunar New Year; was on; 16 February; ; In 2018
Friday; be; 16 February; ;
the first day of the Lunar New Year; initiate; the year of the Dog; ; In 2018

Chinese New Year is one of the world's most prominent and celebrated festivals, and is the cause of the largest annual mass human migration in the world.
Chinese New Year; is; one of the world's most prominent and celebrated festivals; ;
Chinese New Year; is; the cause of the largest annual mass human migration in the world; ;

It is a major holiday in Greater China and has strongly influenced the lunar new year celebrations of China's neighbouring cultures, including the Korean New Year, the Tết of Vietnam, and the Losar of Tibet.
It(Chinese New Year); is; a major holiday in Greater China; ;
It(Chinese New Year); has influenced; the lunar new year celebrations of China's neighbouring cultures; ;
the lunar new year celebrations of China's neighbouring cultures; include; the Korean New Year; ;
the lunar new year celebrations of China's neighbouring cultures; include; the Tết of Vietnam; ;
the lunar new year celebrations of China's neighbouring cultures; include; the Losar of Tibet; ;

It is also celebrated worldwide in countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations, these including Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia, the Philippines and Mauritius, as well as many countries in North America and Europe.
It(Chinese New Year); is celebrated; ; ; in countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Singapore; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Indonesia; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Malaysia; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Thailand; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Cambodia; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; the Philippines; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; Mauritius; ;
these(countries with significant Overseas Chinese populations); include; many countries in North America and Europe; ;

Chinese New Year is associated with several myths and customs.
Chinese New Year; is associated; ; ; with several myths || with several customs

The festival was traditionally a time to honour deities as well as ancestors.
The festival; was; a time; ;
a time; honour; deities; ;
a time; honour; ancestors; ;

Within China, regional customs and traditions concerning the celebration of the New Year vary widely, and the evening preceding Chinese New Year's Day is frequently regarded as an occasion for Chinese families to gather for the annual reunion dinner.
regional customs; vary; ; ; Within China
regional traditions; vary; ; ; Within China
regional customs; concern; the celebration of the New Year; ;
regional traditions; concern; the celebration of the New Year; ;
the evening; is regarded; ; ; as an occasion
the evening; precede; Chinese New Year's Day; ;
Chinese families; gather; ; ; for the annual reunion dinner

It is also traditional for every family to thoroughly clean their house, in order to sweep away any ill-fortune and to make way for incoming good luck.
It; is traditional; ; ;
every family; clean; their house; ;
every family; sweep away; any ill-fortune; ;
every family; make; way; ; for incoming good luck

Another custom is the decoration of windows and doors with red paper-cuts and couplets.
Another custom; is; the decoration of windows with red paper-cuts; ;
Another custom; is; the decoration of windows with red couplets; ;
Another custom; is; the decoration of doors with red paper-cuts; ;
Another custom; is; the decoration of doors with red couplets; ;

Popular themes among these paper-cuts and couplets include that of good fortune or happiness, wealth, and longevity.
Popular themes among these paper-cuts and couplets; include; that of good fortune; ;
Popular themes among these paper-cuts and couplets; include; that of happiness; ;
Popular themes among these paper-cuts and couplets; include; that of wealth; ;
Popular themes among these paper-cuts and couplets; include; that of longevity; ;

Other activities include lighting firecrackers and giving money in red paper envelopes.
other activities; include; lighting firecrackers; ;
other activities; include; giving money in red paper envelopes; ;

For the northern regions of China, dumplings are featured prominently in meals celebrating the festival.
dumplings; are featured; ; ; in meals || For the northern regions of China
meals; celebrate; the festival; ;

=====================

The Yangtze, which is 6,380 km long, is the longest river in Asia and the third-longest in the world.
which(The Yangtze); is; 6,380 km; ;
The Yangtze; is; the longest river in Asia; ;
The Yangtze; is the third-longest; ; ; in the world

The river is the longest in the world to flow entirely within one country.
The river; is the longest; ; ; in the world
The river; flow; ; ; within one country

It drains one-fifth of the land area of the People's Republic of China and its river basin is home to nearly one-third of the country's population.
It(The Yangtze); drains; one-fifth of the land area of the People's Republic of China; ;
its river basin; is; home to one-third of the country's population; ;

The Yangtze is the sixth-largest river by discharge volume in the world.
The Yangtze; is; the sixth-largest river; ; by discharge volume || in the world

The English name Yangtze derives from the Chinese name Yang Zijiang, which refers to the lowest 435 km of the river between Nanjing and Shanghai.
The English name Yangtze; derives from; the Chinese name Yang Zijiang; ;
?which(the Chinese name Yang Zijiang); refers; ; ; to the lowest 435 km of the river between Nanjing and Shanghai

The whole river is known in China as Chang Jiang.
The whole river; is known; ; ; in China || as Chang Jiang

The Yangtze plays a large role in the history, culture and economy of China.
The Yangtze; plays; a large role; ; in the history of China || in the culture of China || in the economy of China

The prosperous Yangtze River Delta generates as much as 20% of the PRC's GDP.
The prosperous Yangtze River Delta; generates; 20% of the PRC's GDP; ;

The Yangtze River flows through a wide array of ecosystems and is habitat to several endemic and endangered species including the Chinese alligator, the narrow-ridged finless porpoise, the Chinese paddlefish, the Yangtze River dolphin or Baiji, and the Yangtze sturgeon.
The Yangtze River; flows; ; ; through a wide array of ecosystems
The Yangtze River; is habitat to; several endemic and endangered species; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; the Chinese alligator; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; the narrow-ridged finless porpoise; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; the Chinese paddlefish; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; the Yangtze River dolphin; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; Baiji; ;
several endemic and endangered species; include; the Yangtze sturgeon; ;

For thousands of years, the river has been used for water, irrigation, sanitation, transportation, industry, boundary-marking and war.
the river; has been used; ; ; For thousands of years || for water || for irrigation || for sanitation || for transportation || for industry || for boundary-marking || for war

The Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River is the largest hydro-electric power station in the world.
The Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River; is; the largest hydro-electric power station in the world; ;

In recent years, the river has suffered from industrial pollution, agricultural run-off, siltation, and loss of wetland and lakes, which exacerbates seasonal flooding.
the river; has suffered; ; ; In recent years || from industrial pollution|| from agricultural run-off || from siltation || from loss of wetland and lakes
which(the river); exacerbates; seasonal flooding; ; In recent years

Some sections of the river are now protected as nature reserves.
Some sections of the river; are protected; ; ; as nature reserves

A stretch of the upstream Yangtze flowing through deep gorges in western Yunnan is part of the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
?A stretch of the upstream Yangtze; is; part of the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas; ;
A stretch of the upstream Yangtze; flow; ; ; through deep gorges in western Yunnan
the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas; be; a UNESCO World Heritage Site; ;

?In mid-2014, the Chinese government announced it was building a multi-tier transport network, comprising railways, roads and airports, to create a new economic belt alongside the river.
the Chinese government; announced; ; ;
it(the Chinese government); was building; a multi-tier transport network; ; In mid-2014
a multi-tier transport network; comprise; railways; ;
a multi-tier transport network; comprise; roads; ;
a multi-tier transport network; comprise; airports; ;
it(the Chinese government); create; a new economic belt alongside the river; ;

=====================
Barack Hussein Obama II is an American attorney and politician who served as the 44th President of the United States from 2009 to 2017.
Barack Hussein Obama II; is; an American attorney; ;
Barack Hussein Obama II; is; an American politician; ;
an American attorney; served; ; ; as the 44th President of the United States || from 2009 || to 2017
an American politician; served; ; ; as the 44th President of the United States || from 2009 || to 2017
Barack Hussein Obama II; served; ; ; as the 44th President of the United States || from 2009 || to 2017

A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African American to be elected to the presidency.
he(Barack Hussein Obama II); be; A member of the Democratic Party; ;
he(Barack Hussein Obama II); was; the first African American; ;
the first African American; be elected; ; ; to the presidency

He previously served as a United States Senator from Illinois.
He(Barack Hussein Obama II); served; ; ; as a United States Senator from Illinois

Obama was born in 1961 in Honolulu, Hawaii, two years after the territory was admitted to the Union as the 50th state.
Obama; was born; ; ; in 1961 || in Honolulu, Hawaii
the territory; was admitted; ; ; to the Union || as the 50th state

After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago.
he(Obama); graduate; ; ; from Columbia University || in 1983
he(Obama); worked; ; ; as a community organizer || in Chicago

In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review.
he(Obama); enrolled; ; ; In 1988 || in Harvard Law School
he(Obama); was; the first black president of the Harvard Law Review; ; In 1988

After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
he(Obama); became; a civil rights attorney; ;
he(Obama); became; an academic; ;
he(Obama); graduate; ; ;
he(Obama); teach; constitutional law; ; at the University of Chicago Law School || from 1992 || to 2004

He represented the 13th district for three terms in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate.
He(Obama); represented; the 13th district; ; for three terms in the Illinois Senate || from 1997 || to 2004
he(Obama); ran; ; ; for the U.S. Senate

He received national attention in 2004 with his March primary win, his well-received July Democratic National Convention keynote address, and his landslide November election to the Senate.
He(Obama); received; national attention; ; in 2004 || with his March primary win || with his well-received July Democratic National Convention keynote address || with his landslide November election to the Senate

In 2008, he was nominated for president a year after his campaign began and after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton.
he(Obama); was nominated; ; ; for president || after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton
his campaign; began; ; ;

He was elected over Republican John McCain and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009.
He(Obama); was elected; ; ; over Republican John McCain
He(Obama); was inaugurated; ; ; on January 20, 2009

Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
he(Obama); was named; the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate; ;

During his first two years in office, Obama signed many landmark bills into law.
Obama; signed; many landmark bills; ; during his first two years in office || into law

The main reforms were the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010.
The main reforms; were; the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; ;
The main reforms; were; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; ;
The main reforms; were; the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010; ;

?The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 served as economic stimulus amidst the Great Recession.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009; served; ; ; as economic stimulus || amidst the Great Recession
Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010; served; ; ; as economic stimulus || amidst the Great Recession

After a lengthy debate over the national debt limit, he signed the Budget Control and the American Taxpayer Relief Acts.
he(Obama); signed; the Budget Control and the American Taxpayer Relief Acts; ; after a lengthy debate over the national debt limit

In foreign policy, he increased U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan, reduced nuclear weapons with the United States–Russia New START treaty, and ended military involvement in the Iraq War.
he(Obama); increased; U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan; ; in foreign policy
he(Obama); reduced; nuclear weapons; ; in foreign policy || with the United States–Russia New START treaty
he(Obama); ended; military involvement in the Iraq War; ; in foreign policy

He ordered military involvement in Libya in opposition to Muammar Gaddafi;
He(Obama); ordered; military involvement in Libya; ; in opposition to Muammar Gaddafi

Gaddafi was killed by NATO-assisted forces.
Gaddafi; was killed; ; ; by NATO-assisted forces

He also ordered the military operations that resulted in the deaths of Osama bin Laden and suspected Yemeni Al-Qaeda operative Anwar al-Awlaki.
He(Obama); ordered; the military operations; ;
the military operations; resulted in; the deaths of Osama bin Laden; ;
the military operations; resulted in; the deaths of suspected Yemeni Al-Qaeda operative Anwar al-Awlaki; ;
Anwar al-Awlaki; be; suspected Yemeni Al-Qaeda operative; ;

After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term in 2013.
Obama; was sworn in; ; ; for a second term || in 2013
Obama; win; re-election; ;
Obama; defeat; Republican opponent Mitt Romney; ;
Republican opponent; be; Mitt Romney; ;

During this term, he promoted inclusiveness for LGBT Americans.
he(Obama); promoted; inclusiveness; ; during this term || for LGBT Americans

His administration filed briefs that urged the Supreme Court to strike down same-sex marriage bans as unconstitutional;
His administration; filed; briefs; ;
briefs; urged; the Supreme Court; ;
the Supreme Court; strike down; same-sex marriage bans; ;

same-sex marriage was fully legalized in 2015 after the Court ruled that a same-sex marriage ban was unconstitutional in Obergefell.
same-sex marriage; was legalized; ; ; in 2015
the Court; ruled; ; ;
a same-sex marriage ban; was unconstitutional; ; ; in Obergefell

He advocated for gun control in response to the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, indicating support for a ban on assault weapons, and issued wide-ranging executive actions concerning climate change and immigration.
He(Obama); advocated; ; ; for gun control || in response to the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting
He(Obama); indicate; support for a ban on assault weapons; ;
He(Obama); issued; wide-ranging executive actions; ;
wide-ranging executive actions; concern; climate change; ;
wide-ranging executive actions; concern; immigration; ;

In foreign policy, he ordered military intervention in Iraq in response to gains made by ISIL after the 2011 withdrawal from Iraq, continued the process of ending U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan in 2016, promoted discussions that led to the 2015 Paris Agreement on global climate change, initiated sanctions against Russia following the invasion in Ukraine and again after Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections, brokered a nuclear deal with Iran, and normalized U.S. relations with Cuba.
he(Obama); ordered; military intervention in Iraq; ; in response to gains || in foreign policy
gains; be made ; ; ; by ISIL || after the 2011 withdrawal from Iraq
he(Obama); continued; the process; ;
the process; end; U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan; ; in 2016
he(Obama); promoted; discussions; ;
that(discussions); led to; the 2015 Paris Agreement on global climate change; ;
sanctions against Russia; follow; the invasion in Ukraine; ;
he(Obama); initiated; sanctions against Russia; ; after Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections
he(Obama); brokered; a nuclear deal; ; with Iran
he(Obama); normalized; U.S. relations; ; with Cuba

During his term in office, America's reputation in global polling significantly improved.
America's reputation in global polling; improved; ; ;

Evaluations of his presidency among historians and the general public place him among the upper tier of American presidents.
Evaluations of his presidency among historians; place; him(Obama); ; among the upper tier of American presidents
the general public; place; him(Obama); ; among the upper tier of American presidents

Obama left office in January 2017 and currently resides in Washington, D.C.
Obama; left; office; ; in January 2017
Obama; resides; ; ; in Washington, D.C

============================================
Michael Jeffrey Jordan, also known by his initials, MJ, is an American former professional basketball player.
Michael Jeffrey Jordan; be known; ; ; by his initials
his initials; be; MJ; ;
Michael Jeffrey Jordan; is; an American former professional basketball player; ;

He played 15 seasons in the National Basketball Association for the Chicago Bulls and Washington Wizards.
He(Michael Jeffrey Jordan); played; 15 seasons; ; in the National Basketball Association || for the Chicago Bulls || for Washington Wizards

?His biography on the official NBA website states: "By acclamation, Michael Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time."
His biography on the official NBA website; states; ; ;
Michael Jordan; is; the greatest basketball player of all time; ; By acclamation

Jordan was one of the most effectively marketed athletes of his generation and was considered instrumental in popularizing the NBA around the world in the 1980s and 1990s.
Jordan; was; one of the most effectively marketed athletes of his generation; ;
Jordan; was considered instrumental; ; ;
Jordan; popularize; the NBA; ; around the world || in the 1980s || in the 1990s

He is currently the principal owner and chairman of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets.
He(Jordan); is; the principal owner of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets; ;
He(Jordan); is; the chairman of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets; ;

Jordan played three seasons for coach Dean Smith at the University of North Carolina.
Jordan; played; three seasons; ; for coach Dean Smith || at the University of North Carolina

As a freshman, he was a member of the Tar Heels' national championship team in 1982.
he(Jordan); was; a member of the Tar Heels' national championship team; ; As a freshman || in 1982

Jordan joined the Bulls in 1984 as the third overall draft pick.
Jordan; joined; the Bulls; ; in 1984 || as the third overall draft pick

He quickly emerged as a league star and entertained crowds with his prolific scoring.
He(Jordan); emerged; ; ; as a league star
He(Jordan); entertained; crowds; ; with his prolific scoring

His leaping ability, demonstrated by performing slam dunks from the free throw line in Slam Dunk Contests, earned him the nicknames Air Jordan and His Airness.
His leaping ability; earned; him; the nicknames Air Jordan; ;
His leaping ability; earned; him; His Airness; ;
His leaping ability; be demonstrated; ; ;
his leaping ability; perform; slam dunks; ; from the free throw line in Slam Dunk Contests

He also gained a reputation for being one of the best defensive players in basketball.
He(Jordan); gained; a reputation; ;
He(Jordan); be; one of the best defensive players in basketball; ;

In 1991, he won his first NBA championship with the Bulls, and followed that achievement with titles in 1992 and 1993, securing a "three-peat".
he(Jordan); won; his first NBA championship; ; In 1991 || with the Bulls
he(Jordan); followed; that achievement; ; with titles in 1992 and 1993
he(Jordan); secure; a "three-peat"; ;

Although Jordan abruptly retired from basketball before the beginning of the 1993–94 NBA season, and started a new career in Minor League Baseball, he returned to the Bulls in March 1995 and led them to three additional championships in 1996, 1997, and 1998, as well as a then-record 72 regular-season wins in the 1995–96 NBA season.
Jordan; retired; ; ; from basketball; before the beginning of the 1993–94 NBA season
Jordan; started; a new career; ; in Minor League Baseball
he(Jordan); returned; ; ; to the Bulls || in March 1995
?he(Jordan); led them(the Bulls); ; ; to three additional championships || in 1996 || in 1997 || in 1998
he(Jordan); led them(the Bulls); ; ; to a then-record 72 regular-season wins in the 1995–96 NBA season

Jordan retired for a second time in January 1999, but returned for two more NBA seasons from 2001 to 2003 as a member of the Wizards.
Jordan; retired; ; ; for a second time || in January 1999
Jordan; returned; ; ; for two more NBA seasons || from 2001 || to 2003 || as a member of the Wizards

Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments include six NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Awards, ten scoring titles, five MVP Awards, ten All-NBA First Team designations, nine All-Defensive First Team honors, fourteen NBA All-Star Game selections, three All-Star Game MVP Awards, three steals titles, and the 1988 NBA Defensive Player of the Year Award.
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; six NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Awards; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; ten scoring titles; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; five MVP Awards; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; ten All-NBA First Team designations; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; nine All-Defensive First Team honors; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; fourteen NBA All-Star Game selections; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; three All-Star Game MVP Awards; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; three steals titles; ;
Jordan's individual accolades and accomplishments; include; the 1988 NBA Defensive Player of the Year Award; ;

He holds the NBA records for highest career regular season scoring average and highest career playoff scoring average.
He(Jordan); holds; the NBA records; ; for highest career regular season scoring average || for highest career playoff scoring average

In 1999, he was named the greatest North American athlete of the 20th century by ESPN, and was second to Babe Ruth on the Associated Press' list of athletes of the century.
he(Jordan); was named; the greatest North American athlete of the 20th century; ; In 1999 || by ESPN
he(Jordan); was second; ; ; to Babe Ruth || on the Associated Press' list of athletes of the century

Jordan is a two-time inductee into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, having been enshrined in 2009 for his individual career, and again in 2010 as part of the group induction of the 1992 United States men's Olympic basketball team.
Jordan; is; a two-time inductee into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame; ;
Jordan; have been enshrined; ; ; in 2009 || for his individual career
Jordan; have been enshrined; ; ; in 2010 || as part of the group induction of the 1992 United States men's Olympic basketball team

He became a member of the FIBA Hall of Fame in 2015.
He(Jordan); became; a member of the FIBA Hall of Fame; ; in 2015

Jordan is also known for his product endorsements.
Jordan; is known; ; ; for his product endorsements

He fueled the success of Nike's Air Jordan sneakers, which were introduced in 1984 and remain popular today.
He(Jordan); fueled; the success of Nike's Air Jordan sneakers; ;
Nike's Air Jordan sneakers; were introduced; ; ; in 1984
Nike's Air Jordan sneakers; remain popular; ; ;

Jordan also starred as himself in the 1996 film Space Jam.
Jordan; starred; ; ; as himself || in the 1996 film Space Jam

In 2006, he became part-owner and head of basketball operations for the Charlotte Bobcats;
he(Jordan); became; part-owner basketball operations for the Charlotte Bobcats; ;
he(Jordan); became; head of basketball operations for the Charlotte Bobcats; ;

he bought a controlling interest in 2010.
he(Jordan); bought; a controlling interest; ; in 2010

In 2014, Jordan became the first billionaire player in NBA history.
Jordan; became; the first billionaire player; ; In 2014 || in NBA history

He is the third-richest African-American, behind Robert F. Smith and Oprah Winfrey.
He(Jordan); is; the third-richest African-American; ; behind Robert F. Smith || behind Oprah Winfrey

================================

Titanic is a 1997 American epic romance and disaster film directed, written, co-produced and co-edited by James Cameron.
Titanic; is; a 1997 American epic romance and disaster film; ;
Titanic; be directed; ; ; by James Cameron
Titanic; be written; ; ; by James Cameron
Titanic; be co-produced; ; ; by James Cameron
Titanic; be co-edited; ; ; by James Cameron

A fictionalized account of the sinking of the RMS Titanic, it stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet as members of different social classes who fall in love aboard the ship during its ill-fated maiden voyage.
it(Titanic); stars; Leonardo DiCaprio; ; as members of different social classes
it(Titanic); stars; Kate Winslet; ; as members of different social classes
it(Titanic); be; A fictionalized account of the sinking of the RMS Titanic; ;
who(members of different social classes); fall in love; ; ; aboard the ship || during its ill-fated maiden voyage

Cameron's inspiration for the film came from his fascination with shipwrecks;
Cameron's inspiration for the film; came; ; ; from his fascination with shipwrecks

he felt a love story interspersed with the human loss would be essential to convey the emotional impact of the disaster.
he(Cameron); felt; ; ;
a love story; be interspersed; ; ; with the human loss
a love story; would be essential; ; ;
a love story; convey; the emotional impact of the disaster; ;

Production began in 1995, when Cameron shot footage of the actual Titanic wreck.
Production; began; ; ; in 1995
Cameron; shot; footage of the actual Titanic wreck; ;

?The modern scenes on the research vessel were shot on board the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh, which Cameron had used as a base when filming the wreck.
The modern scenes on the research vessel; were shot; ; ; on board the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh
Cameron; had used; which(the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh); ; as a base
Cameron; film; the wreck; ;

Scale models, computer-generated imagery, and a reconstruction of the Titanic built at Baja Studios, at Playas de Rosarito in Baja California were used to re-create the sinking.
Scale models; were used; ; ;
computer-generated imagery; were used; ; ;
a reconstruction of the Titanic; were used; ; ;
a reconstruction of the Titanic; be built; ; ; at Baja Studios || at Playas de Rosarito in Baja California

The film was partially funded by Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox;
The film; was funded; ; ; by Paramount Pictures || by 20th Century Fox

the former handled distribution in North America while Fox released the film internationally.
the former; handled; distribution in North America; ;
Fox; released; the film; ;

It was the most expensive film ever made at the time, with a production budget of $200 million.
It(Titanic); was; the most expensive film; ; with a production budget of $200 million
the most expensive film; be made; ; ; at the time

Upon its release on December 19, 1997, Titanic achieved critical and commercial success.
Titanic; achieved; critical success; ; Upon its release on December 19, 1997
Titanic; achieved; commercial success; ; Upon its release on December 19, 1997

?Nominated for 14 Academy Awards, it tied All About Eve for the most Oscar nominations, and won 11, including the awards for Best Picture and Best Director, tying Ben-Hur for the most Oscars won by a single film.
it(Titanic); be nominated; ; ; for 14 Academy Awards
it(Titanic); tied; All About Eve; ; for the most Oscar nominations
11; include; the awards for Best Picture; ;
11; include; the awards for Best Director; ;
it(Titanic); tye; Ben-Hur; ; for the most Oscars
the most Oscars; be won; ; ; by a single film

With an initial worldwide gross of over $1.84 billion, Titanic was the first film to reach the billion-dollar mark.
Titanic; was; the first film; ; with an initial worldwide gross of over $1.84 billion
the first film; reach; the billion-dollar mark; ;

It remained the highest-grossing film of all time until Cameron's Avatar surpassed it in 2010.
It(Titanic); remained; the highest-grossing film of all time; ;
Cameron's Avatar; surpassed; it(Titanic); ; in 2010

?A 3D version of Titanic, released on April 4, 2012, to commemorate the centennial of the sinking, earned it an additional $343.6 million worldwide, pushing the film's worldwide total to $2.18 billion and making it the second film to gross more than $2 billion worldwide.
A 3D version of Titanic; be released; ; ; on April 4, 2012
A 3D version of Titanic; commemorate; the centennial of the sinking; ;
A 3D version of Titanic; earned; it; an additional $343.6 million;
A 3D version of Titanic; push; the film's worldwide total; ; to $2.18 billion
##A 3D version of Titanic; make; it the second film; ;
the second film; gross; more than $2 billion; ;

In 2017, the film was re-released for its 20th anniversary and was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.
the film; was re-released; ; ; In 2017 || for its 20th anniversary
the film; was selected; ; ; for preservation || in the United States National Film Registry

=================================

The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English author and scholar J. R. R. Tolkien.
The Lord of the Rings; is; an epic high fantasy novel; ;
an epic high fantasy novel; be written; ; ; by English author and scholar J. R. R. Tolkien
The Lord of the Rings; be written; ; ; by English author and scholar J. R. R. Tolkien
J. R. R. Tolkien; be; English author; ;
J. R. R. Tolkien; be; English scholar; ;

The story began as a sequel to Tolkien's 1937 fantasy novel The Hobbit, but eventually developed into a much larger work.
The story; began; ; ; as a sequel to Tolkien's 1937 fantasy novel The Hobbit
The story; developed; ; ; into a much larger work
##Tolkien's 1937 fantasy novel; be; The Hobbit; ;

Written in stages between 1937 and 1949, The Lord of the Rings is one of the best-selling novels ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.
The Lord of the Rings; be written; ; ; in stages between 1937 and 1949
The Lord of the Rings; is; one of the best-selling novels; ;
over 150 million copies; be sold; ; ;

?The title of the novel refers to the story's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
The title of the novel; refers; ; ; to the story's main antagonist
the story's main antagonist; be; the Dark Lord Sauron; ;
the Dark Lord Sauron;had created; the One Ring; ; in an earlier age
the One Ring; rule; the other Rings of Power; ; as the ultimate weapon in his campaign

?From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, not only the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise "Sam" Gamgee, Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck and Peregrin "Pippin" Took, but also the hobbits' chief allies and travelling companions: the Men, Aragorn, a Ranger of the North, and Boromir, a Captain of Gondor; Gimli, a Dwarf warrior; Legolas Greenleaf, an Elven prince; and Gandalf, a wizard.
the Shire; be; a hobbit land; ;
the story; ranges; ; ; across Middle-earth
the story; follow; the course of the War of the Ring; ; through the eyes of its characters
its characters; be; the hobbits Frodo Baggins; ;
its characters; be; Samwise "Sam" Gamgee; ;
its characters; be; Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck; ;
its characters; be; Peregrin "Pippin" Took; ;
its characters; be; the hobbits' chief allies; ;
its characters; be; travelling companions; ;
the hobbits; be; Frodo Baggins; ;
the hobbits; be; Samwise "Sam" Gamgee; ;
the hobbits; be; Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck; ;
the hobbits; be; Peregrin "Pippin" Took; ;
Aragorn; be; a Ranger of the North; ;
Boromir; be; a Captain of Gondor; ;
Gimli; be; a Dwarf warrior; ;
Legolas Greenleaf; be; an Elven prince; ;
Gandalf; be; a wizard; ;
the Men; be; Aragorn; ;
the Men; be; Boromir; ;

the work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set, the other to be The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
the work; was intended to be; one volume of a two-volume set; ; by Tolkien
the other; be; The Silmarillion; ;
this idea; was dismissed; ; ; by his publisher

For economic reasons, The Lord of the Rings was published in three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955.
The Lord of the Rings; was published; ; ; For economic reasons|| in three volumes || over the course of a year || from 29 July 1954 || to 20 October 1955

The three volumes were titled The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers and The Return of the King.
The three volumes; were titled; The Fellowship of the Ring; ;
The three volumes; were titled; The Two Towers; ;
The three volumes; were titled; The Return of the King; ;

Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of background material included at the end.
the novel; is divided; ; ; into six books
several appendices of background material; be included; ; ; at the end

Some editions combine the entire work into a single volume.
Some editions; combine; the entire work; ; into a single volume

The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous times and translated into 38 languages.
The Lord of the Rings; has been reprinted; ; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has been translated; ; ; into 38 languages

Tolkien's work has been the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins.
Tolkien's work; has been; the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins; ;

?Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
the story; be; a major work; ; in itself
the story; was; the last movement of a larger epic; ;
Tolkien; had worked; ; ; on a larger epic || since 1917 || in a process
he described; a process; ; ; as mythopoeia

Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion and the author's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien's experiences in World War I.
Influences on this earlier work; include; philology; ;
Influences on this earlier work; include; mythology; ;
Influences on this earlier work; include; religion; ;
Influences on this earlier work; include; the author's distaste for the effects of industrialization; ;
Influences on this earlier work; include; earlier fantasy works; ;
Influences on this earlier work; include; Tolkien's experiences in World War I; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; philology; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; mythology; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; religion; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; the author's distaste for the effects of industrialization; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; earlier fantasy works; ;
Influences on the story of The Lord of the Rings; include; Tolkien's experiences in World War I; ;

?The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy;
The Lord of the Rings; is considered to have had; ; ; in its turn

?the impact of Tolkien's works is such that the use of the words "Tolkienian" and "Tolkienesque" have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
the use of the words "Tolkienian" and "Tolkienesque"; have been recorded; ; ; in the Oxford English Dictionary

The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien's works, and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings; has led; ; ; to numerous references in popular culture
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings; has led; ; ; to the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien's works
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings; has led; ; ; to the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works

The Lord of the Rings has inspired, and continues to inspire, artwork, music, films and television, video games, board games, and subsequent literature.
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; artwork; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; music; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; films; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; television; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; video games; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; board games; ;
The Lord of the Rings; has inspired; subsequent literature; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; artwork; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; music; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; films; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; television; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; video games; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; board games; ;
The Lord of the Rings; continues to inspire; subsequent literature; ;

Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for radio, theatre, and film.
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings; have been made; ; ; for radio || for theatre || for film

In 2003, it was named Britain's best novel of all time in the BBC's The Big Read.
it(The Lord of the Rings); was named; Britain's best novel of all time; ; In 2003 || in the BBC's The Big Read

=================================

The Mona Lisa is a half-length portrait painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci that has been described as "the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world".
The Mona Lisa; is; a half-length portrait painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci; ;
Leonardo da Vinci; be; the Italian Renaissance artist; ;

The Mona Lisa is also one of the most valuable paintings in the world.
The Mona Lisa; is; one of the most valuable paintings in the world; ;

?It holds the Guinness World Record for the highest known insurance valuation in history at $100 million in 1962, which is worth nearly $800 million in 2017.
It(The Mona Lisa); holds; the Guinness World Record; ; for the highest known insurance valuation in history || at $100 million in 1962
$100 million in 1962; is worth; $800 million in 2017; ;

The painting is thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, and is in oil on a white Lombardy poplar panel.
The painting; is thought to be; a portrait of Lisa Gherardini; ;
Lisa Gherardini; be; the wife; ; of Francesco del Giocondo
The painting; is in; oil; ; on a white Lombardy poplar panel

?It had been believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506;
It; had been believed to have been painted; ; ; between 1503 and 1506

however, Leonardo may have continued working on it as late as 1517.
Leonardo; may have continued working; ; ; on it

Recent academic work suggests that it would not have been started before 1513.
Recent academic work; suggests; ; ;
!it(The painting); would have been started; ; ; before 1513

It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Louvre Museum in Paris since 1797.
it(The painting); was acquired; ; ; by King Francis I of France
it(The painting); is; the property of the French Republic; ; on permanent display || at the Louvre Museum in Paris || since 1797

The subject's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modelling of forms, and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
which(The subject's expression); is described; ; ; as enigmatic
The subject's expression; were; novel qualities; ;
the monumentality of the composition; were; novel qualities; ;
the subtle modelling of forms; were; novel qualities; ;
the atmospheric illusionism; were; novel qualities; ;
that(novel qualities); have contributed; ; ; to the continuing fascination of the work || to the continuing study of the work

=================================

Ludwig van Beethoven was a German composer and pianist.
Ludwig van Beethoven; was; a German composer; ;
Ludwig van Beethoven; was; a German pianist; ;

A crucial figure in the transition between the Classical and Romantic eras in Classical music, he remains one of the most recognised and influential of all composers.
he(Ludwig van Beethoven); be; a crucial figure in the transition between the Classical and Romantic eras in Classical music; ;
he(Ludwig van Beethoven); remains; one of the most recognised and influential of all composers; ;

His best-known compositions include 9 symphonies; 5 piano concertos; 1 violin concerto; 32 piano sonatas; 16 string quartets; a mass, the Missa solemnis; and an opera, Fidelio.
His best-known compositions; include; 9 symphonies; ;
His best-known compositions; include; 5 piano concertos; ;
His best-known compositions; include; 1 violin concerto; ;
His best-known compositions; include; 32 piano sonatas; ;
His best-known compositions; include; 16 string quartets; ;
His best-known compositions; include; a mass; ;
His best-known compositions; include; an opera; ;
a mass; be; the Missa solemnis; ;
an opera; be; Fidelio; ;

Beethoven was born in Bonn, then the capital of the Electorate of Cologne and part of the Holy Roman Empire.
Beethoven; was born; ; ; in Bonn
Bonn; be; the capital of the Electorate of Cologne; ;
Bonn; be; part of the Holy Roman Empire; ;

He displayed his musical talents at an early age and was taught by his father Johann van Beethoven and composer and conductor Christian Gottlob Neefe.
He(Beethoven); displayed; his musical talents; ; at an early age
He(Beethoven); was taught; ; ; by his father Johann van Beethoven || by composer and conductor Christian Gottlob Neefe
his father; be; Johann van Beethoven; ;
Christian Gottlob Neefe; be; composer; ;
Christian Gottlob Neefe; be; conductor; ;

At the age of 21 Beethoven moved to Vienna, where he began studying composition with Joseph Haydn and gained a reputation as a virtuoso pianist.
Beethoven; moved; ; ; at the age of 21; to Vienna
he(Beethoven); began studying; composition; ; with Joseph Haydn
he(Beethoven);gained; a reputation; ; as a virtuoso pianist

He lived in Vienna until his death.
He(Beethoven); lived; ; ; in Vienna || until his death

By his late 20s his hearing began to deteriorate and by the last decade of his life he was almost completely deaf.
his hearing; began to deteriorate; ; ; by his late 20s
he(Beethoven); was deaf; ; ; by the last decade of his life

In 1811 he gave up conducting and performing in public but continued to compose;
he(Beethoven); gave up; conducting; ; in 1811; in public
he(Beethoven); gave up; performing; ; in 1811; in public
he(Beethoven); continued to compose; ; ;

many of his most admired works come from these last 15 years of his life.
many of his most admired works; come; ; ; from these last 15 years of his life

=========================

In computer science, Artificial intelligence, sometimes called machine intelligence, is intelligence demonstrated by machines, in contrast to the natural intelligence displayed by humans and other animals.
Artificial intelligence; is; intelligence; ; in computer science, in contrast to the natural intelligence
intelligence; be demonstrated; ; ; by machines
Artificial intelligence; be demonstrated; ; ; by machines
the natural intelligence; be displayed; ; ; by humans || by other animals
Artificial intelligence; be called; machine intelligence; ;

?Computer science defines AI research as the study of "intelligent agents": any device that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals.
Computer science; defines; AI research; ; as the study of "intelligent agents"
that(any device); perceives; its environment; ;
that(any device); takes; actions; ;
that(actions); maximize; its chance; ;

?More in detail, Kaplan and Haenlein define AI as “a system’s ability to correctly interpret external data, to learn from such data, and to use those learnings to achieve specific goals and tasks through flexible adaptation”.
Kaplan; define; AI; ; as a system’s ability
Haenlein; define; AI; ; as a system’s ability

Colloquially, the term "artificial intelligence" is applied when a machine mimics "cognitive" functions that humans associate with other human minds, such as "learning" and "problem solving".
the term "artificial intelligence"; is applied; ; ;
a machine; mimics; "cognitive" functions; ;
humans; associate; "cognitive" functions; ; with other human minds
##"learning"; be; "cognitive" functions; ;
##"problem solving"; be; "cognitive" functions; ;

The scope of AI is disputed: as machines become increasingly capable, tasks considered as requiring "intelligence" are often removed from the definition, a phenomenon known as the AI effect, leading to the quip in Tesler's Theorem, "AI is whatever hasn't been done yet."
The scope of AI; is disputed; ; ;
machines; become capable; ; ;
?tasks; be considered; ; ;
tasks; require; "intelligence"; ;
tasks; are removed; ; ; from the definition
a phenomenon; be known; ; ; as the AI effect
a phenomenon; lead; ; ; to the quip in Tesler's Theorem

For instance, optical character recognition is frequently excluded from "artificial intelligence", having become a routine technology.
optical character recognition; is excluded; ; ; from "artificial intelligence"
optical character recognition; have become; a routine technology; ;

?Modern machine capabilities generally classified as AI include successfully understanding human speech, competing at the highest level in strategic game systems, autonomously operating cars, and intelligent routing in content delivery networks and military simulations.
Modern machine capabilities; be classified; ; ; as AI
Modern machine capabilities; include; understanding human speech; ;
Modern machine capabilities; include; competing at the highest level in strategic game systems; ;
Modern machine capabilities; include; operating cars; ;
Modern machine capabilities; include; intelligent routing in content delivery networks; ;
Modern machine capabilities; include; intelligent routing in military simulations; ;

Borrowing from the management literature, Kaplan and Haenlein classify artificial intelligence into three different types of AI systems: analytical, human-inspired, and humanized artificial intelligence.
Kaplan; borrow; ; ; from the management literature
Haenlein; borrow; ; ; from the management literature
Kaplan; classify; artificial intelligence; ; into three different types of AI systems
Haenlein; classify; artificial intelligence; ; into three different types of AI systems
three different types of AI systems; be; analytical artificial intelligence; ;
three different types of AI systems; be; human-inspired artificial intelligence; ;
three different types of AI systems; be; humanized artificial intelligence; ;

?Analytical AI has only characteristics consistent with cognitive intelligence generating cognitive representation of the world and using learning based on past experience to inform future decisions.
Analytical AI; has; characteristics; ;
characteristics; be consistent; ; ; with cognitive intelligence
cognitive intelligence; generate; cognitive representation of the world; ;

?Human-inspired AI has elements from cognitive as well as emotional intelligence, understanding, in addition to cognitive elements, also human emotions considering them in their decision making.
Human-inspired AI; has; elements from cognitive intelligence; ;
Human-inspired AI; has; elements from emotional intelligence; ;

Humanized AI shows characteristics of all types of competencies, able to be self-conscious and self-aware in interactions with others.
Humanized AI; shows; characteristics of all types of competencies; ;
Humanized AI; be able to be self-conscious; ; ; in interactions with others
Humanized AI; be able to be self-aware; ; ; in interactions with others

?Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding, followed by new approaches, success and renewed funding.
Artificial intelligence; was founded; ; ; as an academic discipline || in 1956
Artificial intelligence; has experienced; several waves of optimism; ; in the years since
several waves of optimism; be followed; ; ; by disappointment || by the loss of funding
disappointment; be followed; ; ; by new approaches || by success || by renewed funding
the loss of funding; be followed; ; ; by new approaches || by success || by renewed funding
several waves of optimism; be followed; ; ; by new approaches || by success || by renewed funding

For most of its history, AI research has been divided into subfields that often fail to communicate with each other.
AI research; has been divided; ; ; For most of its history || into subfields
that(subfields); fail to communicate; ; ; with each other

These sub-fields are based on technical considerations, such as particular goals, the use of particular tools, or deep philosophical differences.
These sub-fields; are based; ; ; on technical considerations
##technical considerations; include; particular goals; ;
##technical considerations; include; the use of particular tools; ;
##technical considerations; include; deep philosophical differences; ;

Subfields have also been based on social factors.
Subfields; have been based; ; ; on social factors

?The traditional problems of AI research include reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language processing, perception and the ability to move and manipulate objects.
The traditional problems of AI research; include; reasoning; ;
The traditional problems of AI research; include; knowledge representation; ;
The traditional problems of AI research; include; planning; ;
The traditional problems of AI research; include; learning; ;
The traditional problems of AI research; include; natural language processing; ;
The traditional problems of AI research; include; perception; ;

General intelligence is among the field's long-term goals.
General intelligence; is among; the field's long-term goals; ;

Approaches include statistical methods, computational intelligence, and traditional symbolic AI.
approaches; include; statistical methods; ;
approaches; include; computational intelligence; ;
approaches; include; traditional symbolic AI; ;

Many tools are used in AI, including versions of search and mathematical optimization, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, probability and economics.
many tools; are used; ; ; in AI
many tools; include; versions of search and mathematical optimization; ;
many tools; include; artificial neural networks; ;
many tools; include; methods; ;
methods; be based; ; ; on statistics || on probability || on economics

?The AI field draws upon computer science, information engineering, mathematics, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and many others.
The AI field; draws; ; ; upon computer science || upon information engineering || upon mathematics || upon psychology || upon linguistics || upon philosophy || upon many others

?The field was founded on the claim that human intelligence "can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it".
The field; was founded; ; ; on the claim

?This raises philosophical arguments about the nature of the mind and the ethics of creating artificial beings endowed with human-like intelligence which are issues that have been explored by myth, fiction and philosophy since antiquity.
This; raises; philosophical arguments about the nature of the mind; ;
This; raises; the ethics; ;
artificial beings; be endowed; ; ; with human-like intelligence
which; are; issues; ;
that(issues); have been explored; ; ; by myth || by fiction || by philosophy || since antiquity.

Some people also consider AI to be a danger to humanity if it progresses unabated.
Some people; consider; AI; ;
AI; be; ; a danger to humanity; ;

?Others believe that AI, unlike previous technological revolutions, will create a risk of mass unemployment.
Others; believe; ; ;
AI; will create; a risk of mass unemployment; ;
?AI; be unlike; previous technological revolutions; ;

In the twenty-first century, AI techniques have experienced a resurgence following concurrent advances in computer power, large amounts of data, and theoretical understanding;
AI techniques; have experienced; a resurgence; ; in the twenty-first century
a resurgence; follow; concurrent advances in computer power; ;
a resurgence; follow; large amounts of data; ;
a resurgence; follow; theoretical understanding; ;

and AI techniques have become an essential part of the technology industry, helping to solve many challenging problems in computer science, software engineering and operations research.
AI techniques; have become; an essential part of the technology industry; ;
AI techniques; help to solve; many challenging problems in computer science; ;
AI techniques; help to solve; many challenging problems in software engineering; ;
AI techniques; help to solve; many challenging problems in operations research; ;

===============================

Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics.
Albert Einstein; was; a German-born theoretical physicist; ;
who(a German-born theoretical physicis); developed; the theory of relativity; ;
Albert Einstein; developed; the theory of relativity; ;
the theory of relativity; be; one of the two pillars of modern physics; ;

His work is also known for its influence on the philosophy of science.
His work; is known; ; ; for its influence on the philosophy of science

He is best known to the general public for his mass–energy equivalence formula "E=mc2", which has been dubbed "the world's most famous equation".
he(Albert Einstein); is known; ; ; to the general public || for his mass–energy equivalence formula
his mass–energy equivalence formula; be; "E=mc2"; ;
which(his mass–energy equivalence formula); has been dubbed; "the world's most famous equation"; ;

He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect", a pivotal step in the development of quantum theory.
he(Albert Einstein); received; the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics; ; for his services to theoretical physics || for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect
his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect; be ; a pivotal step in the development of quantum theory; ;

Near the beginning of his career, Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics with the laws of the electromagnetic field.
Einstein; thought; ; ; Near the beginning of his career
!Newtonian mechanics; was enough to reconcile; the laws of classical mechanics; ; with the laws of the electromagnetic field

?This led him to develop his special theory of relativity during his time at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern, Switzerland.
this; led; him; ; ;
him; develop; his special theory of relativity; ; during his time at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern, Switzerland

However, he realized that the principle of relativity could also be extended to gravitational fields, and he published a paper on general relativity in 1916 with his theory of gravitation.
he(Albert Einstein); realized; ; ;
the principle of relativity; could be extended; ; ; to gravitational fields
he(Albert Einstein); published; a paper on general relativity; ; in 1916 || with his theory of gravitation

?He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, which led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules.
he(Albert Einstein); continued to deal; ; ; with problems of statistical mechanics || with problems of quantum theory
which; led; ; ; to his explanations of particle theory || to his explanations of the motion of molecules

He also investigated the thermal properties of light which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light.
he(Albert Einstein); investigated; the thermal properties of light; ;
which(the thermal properties of light); laid; the foundation of the photon theory of light; ;

In 1917, he applied the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe.
he(Albert Einstein); applied; the general theory of relativity; ;

Except for one year in Prague, Einstein lived in Switzerland between 1895 and 1914, during which time he renounced his German citizenship in 1896, then received his academic diploma from the Swiss federal polytechnic school in Zürich in 1900.
Einstein; lived; ; ; Except for one year in Prague || in Switzerland || between 1895 and 1914
he(Einstein); renounced; his German citizenship; ; in 1896
he(Einstein); received; his academic diploma; ; from the Swiss federal polytechnic school in Zürich || in 1900

After being stateless for more than five years, he acquired Swiss citizenship in 1901, which he kept for the rest of his life.
he(Einstein); be stateless; ; ; for more than five years
he(Einstein); acquired; Swiss citizenship; ; in 1901
he(Einstein); kept; which(Swiss citizenship); ; for the rest of his life

In 1905, he was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich.
he(Einstein); was awarded; a PhD; ; in 1905 || by the University of Zurich

The same year, he published four groundbreaking papers during his renowned annus mirabilis which brought him to the notice of the academic world at the age of 26.
he(Einstein); published; four groundbreaking papers; ; during his renowned annus mirabilis
which(four groundbreaking papers); brought; he(Einstein); ; to the notice of the academic world || at the age of 26

Einstein taught theoretical physics at Zurich between 1912 and 1914 before he left for Berlin, where he was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences.
Einstein; taught; theoretical physics; ; at Zurich || between 1912 and 1914
he(Einstein); left; ; ; for Berlin
he(Einstein); was elected; ; ; to the Prussian Academy of Sciences

In 1933, while Einstein was visiting the United States, Adolf Hitler came to power.
Einstein; was visiting; the United States; ; in 1933
?Adolf Hitler; came to power; ; ; in 1933

Because of his Jewish background, Einstein did not return to Germany.
!Einstein; return; ; ; Because of his Jewish background || to Germany

He settled in the United States and became an American citizen in 1940.
he(Einstein); settled; ; ; in the United States || in 1940
he(Einstein); became; an American citizen; ; in 1940

?On the eve of World War II, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting him to the potential development of "extremely powerful bombs of a new type" and recommending that the US begin similar research.
he(Einstein); endorsed; a letter; ; to President Franklin D. Roosevelt || on the eve of World War II
he(Einstein); alert; him(President Franklin D. Roosevelt); ; to the potential development of "extremely powerful bombs of a new type" || on the eve of World War II
he(Einstein); recommend; ; ;
the US; begin; similar research; ;

This eventually led to the Manhattan Project.
this; led to; the Manhattan Project; ;

?Einstein supported the Allies, but he generally denounced the idea of using nuclear fission as a weapon.
Einstein; supported; the Allies; ;
he(Einstein); denounced; the idea; ;

He signed the Russell–Einstein Manifesto with British philosopher Bertrand Russell, which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons.
he(Einstein); signed; the Russell–Einstein Manifesto; ; with British philosopher Bertrand Russell
Bertrand Russell; be; British philosopher; ;
which(Russell–Einstein Manifesto); highlighted; the danger of nuclear weapons; ;

He was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death in 1955.
he(Einstein); was affiliated; ; ; with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey || until his death in 1955

Einstein published more than 300 scientific papers and more than 150 non-scientific works.
Einstein; published; more than 300 scientific papers; ;
Einstein; published; more than 150 non-scientific works; ;

His intellectual achievements and originality have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius".
His intellectual achievements; have made; ; ;
His originality; have made; ; ;
the word "Einstein"; be synonymous; ; ; with "genius"

==================================
Futbol Club Barcelona , known simply as Barcelona and colloquially as Barça, is a professional football club based in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
Futbol Club Barcelona; be known; ; ; as Barcelona || as Barça
Futbol Club Barcelona; is; a professional football club; ;
a professional football club; be based; ; ; in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain
Futbol Club Barcelona; be based; ; ; in Barcelona || in Catalonia || in Spain

Founded in 1899 by a group of Swiss, English and Catalan footballers led by Joan Gamper, the club has become a symbol of Catalan culture and Catalanism, hence the motto "Més que un club".
the club; be founded; ; ; in 1899 || by a group of Swiss
a group of Swiss; be; English footballers; ;
a group of Swiss; be; Catalan footballers; ;
English footballers; be led; ; ; by Joan Gamper
Catalan footballers; be led; ; ; by Joan Gamper
the club; has become; a symbol of Catalan culture; ;
the club; has become; a symbol of Catalanism; ;

Unlike many other football clubs, the supporters own and operate Barcelona.
the supporters; own; Barcelona; ; unlike many other football clubs
the supporters; operate; Barcelona; ; unlike many other football clubs

It is the third-most valuable sports team in the world, worth $4.07 billion, and the world's third-richest football club in terms of revenue, with an annual turnover of €648.3 million.
It(Barcelona); is; the third-most valuable sports team in the world; ;
It(Barcelona); is worth; $4.07 billion; ;
?It(Barcelona); is; the world's third-richest football club in terms of revenue; ;

The official Barcelona anthem is the "Cant del Barça", written by Jaume Picas and Josep Maria Espinàs.
The official Barcelona anthem; is; the " Cant del Barça "; ;
The official Barcelona anthem; be written; ; ; by Jaume Picas || by Josep Maria Espinàs
the " Cant del Barça "; be written; ; ; by Jaume Picas || by Josep Maria Espinàs
The official Barcelona anthem; be written; ; ; by Jaume Picas || by Josep Maria Espinàs

Domestically, Barcelona has won 25 La Liga, 30 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, 3 Copa Eva Duarte, and 2 Copa de la Liga trophies, as well as being the record holder for the latter four competitions.
Barcelona; has won; 25 La Liga; ;
Barcelona; has won; 30 Copa del Rey; ;
Barcelona; has won; 13 Supercopa de España; ;
Barcelona; has won; 3 Copa Eva Duarte; ;
Barcelona; has won; 2 Copa de la Liga trophies; ;
Barcelona; be; the record holder for the latter four competitions; ;

In international club football, Barcelona has won 20 European and World titles: 5 UEFA Champions League titles, a record 4 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, a joint record 5 UEFA Super Cup, a record 3 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, and a joint record 3 FIFA Club World Cup.
Barcelona; has won; 20 European and World titles; ; in international club football
20 European and World titles; be; 5 UEFA Champions League titles; ;
20 European and World titles; be; a record 4 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup; ;
20 European and World titles; be; a joint record 5 UEFA Super Cup; ;
20 European and World titles; be; a record 3 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup; ;
20 European and World titles; be; a joint record 3 FIFA Club World Cup; ;

Barcelona was ranked first in the International Federation of Football History & Statistics Club World Ranking for 1997, 2009, 2011, 2012, and 2015 and currently occupies the second position on the UEFA club rankings.
Barcelona; was ranked first; ; ; in the International Federation of Football History & Statistics Club World Ranking || for 1997 || for 2009 || for 2011 || for 2012 || for 2015
Barcelona; occupies; the second position on the UEFA club rankings; ;

The club has a long-standing rivalry with Real Madrid; matches between the two teams are referred to as El Clásico.
The club; has; a long-standing rivalry with Real Madrid; ;
matches between the two teams; are referred to; ; ; as El Clásico

Barcelona is one of the most widely supported teams in the world, and the club has one of the largest social media followed in the world among sports teams.
Barcelona; is; one of the most widely supported teams in the world; ;
the club; has; one of the largest social media; ;
the largest social media; be followed; ; ; in the world || among sports teams

Barcelona players have won a record number of Ballon d'Or awards, with recipients including Johan Cruyff, as well as a record number of FIFA World Player of the Year awards, with winners including Ronaldo, Romário, Ronaldinho, and Rivaldo.
Barcelona players; have won; a record number of Ballon d'Or awards; ; with recipients
recipients; include; Johan Cruyff; ;
Barcelona players; have won; a record number of FIFA World Player of the Year awards; ; with winners
winners; include; Ronaldo; ;
winners; include; Romário; ;
winners; include; Ronaldinho; ;
winners; include; Rivaldo; ;

In 2010, three players who came through the club's youth academy were chosen as the three best players in the world in the FIFA Ballon d'Or awards, an unprecedented feat for players from the same football school.
three players; were chosen; ; ; as the three best players in the world in the FIFA Ballon d'Or awards || in 2010
three players; came; ; ; through the club's youth academy

Barcelona is one of three founding members of the Primera División that have never been relegated from the top division since its inception in 1929, along with Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid.
Barcelona; is; one of three founding members of the Primera División; ;
?that(three founding members of the Primera División); have never been relegated; ; ; from the top division || since its inception in 1929 || along with Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid

?In 2009, Barcelona became the first Spanish club to win the continental treble consisting of La Liga, Copa del Rey, and the UEFA Champions League, and also became the first Spanish football club to win six out of six competitions in a single year, by also winning the Spanish Super Cup, UEFA Super Cup, and FIFA Club World Cup.
Barcelona; became; the first Spanish club; ; in 2009
the first Spanish club; win; the continental treble; ;
the continental treble; consist; ; ; of La Liga || of Copa del Rey || of the UEFA Champions League
Barcelona; became; the first Spanish football club; ; in 2009
the first Spanish football club; win; six out of six competitions; ; in a single year
Barcelona; win; the Spanish Super Cup; ; in 2009
Barcelona; win; UEFA Super Cup; ; in 2009
Barcelona; win; FIFA Club World Cup; ; in 2009

In 2011, the club became European champions again and won five trophies.
the club; became; European champions; ; in 2011
the club; won; five trophies; ; in 2011

This Barcelona team, which won 14 trophies in just 4 years under Pep Guardiola, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest team of all time.
This Barcelona team; is considered to be; the greatest team of all time; ; by some in the sport
which(This Barcelona team); won; 14 trophies; ; in just 4 years || under Pep Guardiola

By winning their fifth Champions League trophy on 6 June 2015, Barcelona became the first European club in history to achieve the continental treble twice.
Barcelona; win; their fifth Champions League trophy; ; on 6 June 2015
Barcelona; became; the first European club in history; ;
?the first European club; achieve; the continental treble; ; in history

The highest paid sports team in the world, in November 2018 Barcelona became the first sports team with average first-team pay in excess of £10m per year.
Barcelona; be; the highest paid sports team in the world; ; in November 2018
Barcelona; became; the first sports team with average first-team pay in excess of £10m; ; in 2018